---
layout: post
title: ! 'Ushahidi 2.5: Permissions, settings and changes under the hood'
tags:
- Everything else
status: draft
type: post
published: false
meta:
  _edit_last: '1'
---
Ushahidi 2.5 releases this week. Its a big release which has taken about twice as long as usual. Reviewing changes to see what has happen reveals surprisingly few user facing features. The release has largely been a lot of big changes under the hood.



**Permission &amp; Settings**



Its been a long standing annoyance to me that both settings and permission in Ushahidi were stored as separate columns in their tables, rather than separate lines.

The settings table was the obviously wrong one, it had just 1 row but 20+ columns. Thanks to Emmanuel Kala this has now been restructured to a key value store , meaning one row per setting. The biggest win from this change is that plugins can now easily add additional settings, and future releases don't have to change a table schema just to add 1 setting.



Permissions is less obvious as an issue, but the permission have previously been rolled in with the roles table. This is now split out into its own table, again enabled plugins to add their own permissions as needed. Another clarification that came with this was to add explicit permissions for member and admin UI, previously admin access was assumed for users with any permissions at all.



One of the tricky bits with both these changes has been finding and updating all the existing calls. I would argue that changes like these should happen on a feature branch and the author should do a full sweep of the code base to update calls before merging. In this case we've still found calls to load settings the old way only a day before release - not inspiring confidence.



In many ways 2.5 feels like an attempt to chase up lots of the architectural niggles and tidy things up. We've moved more views out of application and in to themes, and restructured them into folders based on controller at the same time.
